= Installing Qrator =

== What you need to install Qrator ==

Currently, Qrator only runs on Linux or MacOS X.

To install Qrator, you must have:
 # SVN
 # Java 1.6+
 # Apache Maven
 # A running PostgreSQL database
 # A running instance of either Apache Tomcat 6+, JBoss 7.1.1 (JBoss EAP 6.2 Beta - _free with registration_), or Wildfly 8+

== How to build Qrator ==

 # Check out a copy of Qrator through SVN by following the instructions at [https://code.google.com/p/qrator/source/checkout].
 # Create a new Postgres role *_qrator_* using *_createuser_*, with a password of your choosing.  You will need to provide the *_postgres_* role password, and a password for the new *_qrator_* role.
{{{
createuser -U postgres -P qrator
}}}
 # Create an empty *_qrator_* database using *_createdb_*.  You will need to provide the *_postgres_* role password.
{{{
createdb -U postgres -O qrator qrator
}}}
 # Install either the empty database schema, or the most recent Qrator database dump to your PostgreSQL database.  Both are located in the *_db_* directory. Replace *_schema_only.sql_* with *_schema_and_data.sql_* if you want to include previously curated structures, annotations, and references.
{{{
 psql -U qrator qrator < db/schema_only.sql
}}}
 # Provide your database settings in *_src/main/resources/config/persist/persist.prop_* (as shown below).  The *_model_* property shouldn't be modified unless you know what you're doing.  The *_db_username_* property should be set to the Postgres role you created in step 2, and the *_db_password_* should be set to the password you chose for this role.
{{{
# PostgreSQL
db_driver=org.postgresql.Driver
db_url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/qrator
db_username=
db_password=

model=config/qrator/model.json
}}}
 # Examine *build.sh_* and, if needed, correct the USERHOME and MAVENREPO variables.
 # If the settings are correct, run the project build script.  This file will install all necessary Maven dependencies and run *_mvn package_*.
{{{
./build.sh
}}}
 # The Qrator WAR file will be located in the newly created *_target_* subdirectory.  You may move the WAR file to either the Tomcat *_webapps_* directory, or to the *_deployments_* directory in JBoss/Wildfly.
 # After deploying the WAR file, the application will be accessible (assuming the server is on port 8080 and you have deployed on _localhost_) at [http://localhost:8080/Qrator-1.0/].